From: tgl@cs.cmu.edu (Tom Lane)
Subject: JPEG image compression: Frequently Asked Questions
Summary: Useful info about JPEG (JPG) image files and programs
Keywords: JPEG, image compression, FAQ
Supersedes: <jpegfaq_733898461@g.gp.cs.cmu.edu>
NntpPostingHost: g.gp.cs.cmu.edu
ReplyTo: jpeginfo@uunet.uu.net
Organization: School of Computer Science, Carnegie Mellon
Expires: Sun, 16 May 1993 21:39:30 GMT
Lines: 1027

Archivename: jpegfaq
Lastmodified: 18 April 1993

This FAQ article discusses JPEG image compression.  Suggestions for
additions and clarifications are welcome.

New since version of 3 April 1993:
   New versions of Image Archiver and PMJPEG for OS/2.


This article includes the following sections:

1  What is JPEG?
2  Why use JPEG?
3  When should I use JPEG, and when should I stick with GIF?
4  How well does JPEG compress images?
5  What are good quality settings for JPEG?
6  Where can I get JPEG software?
    6A canned software, viewers, etc.
    6B source code
7  Whats all this hoopla about color quantization?
8  How does JPEG work?
9  What about lossless JPEG?
10  Why all the argument about file formats?
11  How do I recognize which file format I have, and what do I do about it?
12  What about arithmetic coding?
13  Does loss accumulate with repeated compression/decompression?
14  What are some rules of thumb for converting GIF images to JPEG?

Sections 16 are basic info that every JPEG user needs to know;
sections 714 are advanced info for the curious.

This article is posted every 2 weeks.  You can always find the latest version
in the news.answers archive at rtfm.mit.edu (18.172.1.27).  By FTP, fetch
/pub/usenet/news.answers/jpegfaq; or if you dont have FTP, send email to
mailserver@rtfm.mit.edu with body send usenet/news.answers/jpegfaq.
Many other FAQ articles are also stored in this archive.  For more
instructions on use of the archive, send email to the same address with the
words help and index (no quotes) on separate lines.  If you dont get a
reply, the server may be misreading your return address; add a line such as
path myname@mysite to specify your correct email address to reply to.





1  What is JPEG?

JPEG (pronounced jaypeg) is a standardized image compression mechanism.
JPEG stands for Joint Photographic Experts Group, the original name of the
committee that wrote the standard.  JPEG is designed for compressing either
fullcolor or grayscale digital images of natural, realworld scenes.
It does not work so well on nonrealistic images, such as cartoons or line
drawings.

JPEG does not handle blackandwhite (1bitperpixel) images, nor does it
handle motion picture compression.  Standards for compressing those types
of images are being worked on by other committees, named JBIG and MPEG
respectively.

JPEG is lossy, meaning that the image you get out of decompression isnt
quite identical to what you originally put in.  The algorithm achieves much
of its compression by exploiting known limitations of the human eye, notably
the fact that small color details arent perceived as well as small details
of lightanddark.  Thus, JPEG is intended for compressing images that will
be looked at by humans.  If you plan to machineanalyze your images, the
small errors introduced by JPEG may be a problem for you, even if they are
invisible to the eye.

A useful property of JPEG is that the degree of lossiness can be varied by
adjusting compression parameters.  This means that the image maker can trade
off file size against output image quality.  You can make extremely small
files if you dont mind poor quality; this is useful for indexing image
archives, making thumbnail views or icons, etc. etc.  Conversely, if you
arent happy with the output quality at the default compression setting, you
can jack up the quality until you are satisfied, and accept lesser compression.


2  Why use JPEG?

There are two good reasons: to make your image files smaller, and to store
24bitperpixel color data instead of 8bitperpixel data.

Making image files smaller is a big win for transmitting files across
networks and for archiving libraries of images.  Being able to compress a
2 Mbyte fullcolor file down to 100 Kbytes or so makes a big difference in
disk space and transmission time!  (If you are comparing GIF and JPEG, the
size ratio is more like four to one.  More details below.)

If your viewing software doesnt support JPEG directly, youll have to
convert JPEG to some other format for viewing or manipulating images.  Even
with a JPEGcapable viewer, it takes longer to decode and view a JPEG image
than to view an image of a simpler format (GIF, for instance).  Thus, using
JPEG is essentially a time/space tradeoff: you give up some time in order to
store or transmit an image more cheaply.

Its worth noting that when network or phone transmission is involved, the
time savings from transferring a shorter file can be much greater than the
extra time to decompress the file.  Ill let you do the arithmetic yourself.

The other reason why JPEG will gradually replace GIF as a standard Usenet
posting format is that JPEG can store full color information: 24 bits/pixel
(16 million colors) instead of 8 or less (256 or fewer colors).  If you have
only 8bit display hardware then this may not seem like much of an advantage
to you.  Within a couple of years, though, 8bit GIF will look as obsolete as
blackandwhite MacPaint format does today.  Furthermore, for reasons detailed
in section 7, JPEG is far more useful than GIF for exchanging images among
people with widely varying color display hardware.  Hence JPEG is considerably
more appropriate than GIF for use as a Usenet posting standard.


3  When should I use JPEG, and when should I stick with GIF?

JPEG is not going to displace GIF entirely; for some types of images,
GIF is superior in image quality, file size, or both.  One of the first
things to learn about JPEG is which kinds of images to apply it to.

As a rule of thumb, JPEG is superior to GIF for storing fullcolor or
grayscale images of realistic scenes; that means scanned photographs and
similar material.  JPEG is superior even if you dont have 24bit display
hardware, and it is a LOT superior if you do.  (See section 7 for details.)

GIF does significantly better on images with only a few distinct colors,
such as cartoons and line drawings.  In particular, large areas of pixels
that are all exactly the same color are compressed very efficiently indeed
by GIF.  JPEG cant squeeze these files as much as GIF does without
introducing visible defects.  This sort of image is best kept in GIF form.
(In particular, singlecolor borders are quite cheap in GIF files, but they
should be avoided in JPEG files.)

JPEG also has a hard time with very sharp edges: a row of pureblack pixels
adjacent to a row of purewhite pixels, for example.  Sharp edges tend to
come out blurred unless you use a very high quality setting.  Again, this
sort of thing is not found in scanned photographs, but it shows up fairly
often in GIF files: borders, overlaid text, etc.  The blurriness is
particularly objectionable with text thats only a few pixels high.
If you have a GIF with a lot of smallsize overlaid text, dont JPEG it.

Computerdrawn images (raytraced scenes, for instance) usually fall between
scanned images and cartoons in terms of complexity.  The more complex and
subtly rendered the image, the more likely that JPEG will do well on it.
The same goes for semirealistic artwork (fantasy drawings and such).

Plain blackandwhite (two level) images should never be converted to JPEG.
You need at least about 16 gray levels before JPEG is useful for grayscale
images.  It should also be noted that GIF is lossless for grayscale images
of up to 256 levels, while JPEG is not.

If you have an existing library of GIF images, you may wonder whether you
should convert them to JPEG.  You will lose a little image quality if you do.
(Section 7, which argues that JPEG image quality is superior to GIF, only
applies if both formats start from a fullcolor original.  If you start from
a GIF, youve already irretrievably lost a great deal of information; JPEG
can only make things worse.)  However, the disk space savings may justify
converting anyway.  This is a decision youll have to make for yourself.
If you do convert a GIF library to JPEG, see section 14 for hints.  Be
prepared to leave some images in GIF format, since some GIFs will not
convert well.


4  How well does JPEG compress images?

Pretty darn well.  Here are some sample file sizes for an image I have
handy, a 727x525 fullcolor image of a ship in a harbor.  The first three
files are for comparison purposes; the rest were created with the free JPEG
software described in section 6B.

File	   Size in bytes		Comments

ship.ppm	1145040  Original file in PPM format (no compression; 24 bits
			 or 3 bytes per pixel, plus a few bytes overhead)
ship.ppm.Z	 963829  PPM file passed through Unix compress
			 compress doesnt accomplish a lot, youll note.
			 Other textoriented compressors give similar results.
ship.gif	 240438  Converted to GIF with ppmquant fs 256 | ppmtogif
			 Most of the savings is the result of losing color
			 info: GIF saves 8 bits/pixel, not 24.  (See sec. 7.)

ship.jpg95	 155622  cjpeg Q 95    (highest useful quality setting)
			 This is indistinguishable from the 24bit original,
			 at least to my nonprofessional eyeballs.
ship.jpg75	  58009  cjpeg Q 75    (default setting)
			 You have to look mighty darn close to distinguish this
			 from the original, even with both onscreen at once.
ship.jpg50	  38406  cjpeg Q 50
			 This has slight defects; if you know what to look
			 for, you could tell its been JPEGed without seeing
			 the original.  Still as good image quality as many
			 recent postings in Usenet pictures groups.
ship.jpg25	  25192  cjpeg Q 25
			 JPEGs characteristic blockiness becomes apparent
			 at this setting (djpeg blocksmooth helps some).
			 Still, Ive seen plenty of Usenet postings that were
			 of poorer image quality than this.
ship.jpg5o	   6587  cjpeg Q 5 optimize  (optimize cuts table overhead)
			 Blocky, but perfectly satisfactory for preview or
			 indexing purposes.  Note that this file is TINY:
			 the compression ratio from the original is 173:1 !

In this case JPEG can make a file thats a factor of four or five smaller
than a GIF of comparable quality (the Q 75 file is every bit as good as the
GIF, better if you have a fullcolor display).  This seems to be a typical
ratio for realworld scenes.


5  What are good quality settings for JPEG?

Most JPEG compressors let you pick a file size vs. image quality tradeoff by
selecting a quality setting.  There seems to be widespread confusion about
the meaning of these settings.  Quality 95 does NOT mean keep 95% of the
information, as some have claimed.  The quality scale is purely arbitrary;
its not a percentage of anything.

The name of the game in using JPEG is to pick the lowest quality setting
(smallest file size) that decompresses into an image indistinguishable from
the original.  This setting will vary from one image to another and from one
observer to another, but here are some rules of thumb.

The default quality setting (Q 75) is very often the best choice.  This
setting is about the lowest you can go without expecting to see defects in a
typical image.  Try Q 75 first; if you see defects, then go up.  Except for
experimental purposes, never go above Q 95; saying Q 100 will produce a
file two or three times as large as Q 95, but of hardly any better quality.

If the image was less than perfect quality to begin with, you might be able to
go down to Q 50 without objectionable degradation.  On the other hand, you
might need to go to a HIGHER quality setting to avoid further degradation.
The second case seems to apply much of the time when converting GIFs to JPEG.
The default Q 75 is about right for compressing 24bit images, but Q 85 to
95 is usually better for converting GIFs (see section 14 for more info).

If you want a very small file (say for preview or indexing purposes) and are
prepared to tolerate large defects, a Q setting in the range of 5 to 10 is
about right.  Q 2 or so may be amusing as op art.

(Note: the quality settings discussed in this article apply to the free JPEG
software described in section 6B, and to many programs based on it.  Other
JPEG implementations, such as Image Alchemy, may use a completely different
quality scale.  Some programs dont even provide a numeric scale, just
high/medium/lowstyle choices.)


6  Where can I get JPEG software?

Most of the programs described in this section are available by FTP.
If you dont know how to use FTP, see the FAQ article How to find sources.
(If you dont have direct access to FTP, read about ftpmail servers in the
same article.)  That article appears regularly in news.answers, or you can
get it by sending email to mailserver@rtfm.mit.edu with
send usenet/news.answers/findingsources in the body.  The Anonymous FTP
List FAQ may also be helpful  its usenet/news.answers/ftplist/faq in
the news.answers archive.

NOTE: this list changes constantly.  If you have a copy more than a couple
months old, get the latest JPEG FAQ from the news.answers archive.


6A  If you are looking for canned software, viewers, etc:

The first part of this list is systemspecific programs that only run on one
kind of system.  If you dont see what you want for your machine, check out
the portable JPEG software described at the end of the list.  Note that this
list concentrates on free and shareware programs that you can obtain over
Internet; but some commercial programs are listed too.

X Windows:

John Bradleys free XV (version 2.00 and up) is an excellent viewer for JPEG,
GIF, and other image formats.  Its available for FTP from export.lcs.mit.edu
or ftp.cis.upenn.edu.  The file is called xv???.tar.Z (where ??? is the
version number, currently 2.21); it is located in the contrib directory on
export or the pub/xv directory at upenn.  XV reduces all images to 8 bits
internally, which means its not a real good choice if you have a 24bit
display (youll still get only 8bit color).  Also, you shouldnt use XV to
convert fullcolor images to JPEG, because theyll get colorquantized first.
But XV is a fine tool for converting GIF and other 8bit images to JPEG.
CAUTION: there is a glitch in versions 2.21 and earlier: be sure to check
the save at normal size checkbox when saving a JPEG file, or the file will
be blurry.

Another good choice for X Windows is John Cristys free ImageMagick package,
also available from export.lcs.mit.edu, file contrib/ImageMagick.tar.Z.
This package handles many image processing and conversion tasks.  The
ImageMagick viewer handles 24bit displays correctly; for colormapped
displays, it does better (though slower) color quantization than XV or the
basic free JPEG software.

Both of the above are large, complex packages.  If you just want a simple
image viewer, try xloadimage or xli.  xloadimage supports JPEG in its latest
release, 3.03.  xloadimage is free and available from export.lcs.mit.edu,
file contrib/xloadimage.3.03.tar.Z.  xli is a variant version of xloadimage,
said by its fans to be somewhat faster and more robust than the original.
(The current xli is indeed faster and more robust than the current
xloadimage, at least with respect to JPEG files, because it has the IJG v4
decoder while xloadimage 3.03 is using a hackedover v1.  The next
xloadimage release will fix this.)  xli is also free and available from
export.lcs.mit.edu, file contrib/xli.1.14.tar.Z.  Both programs are said
to do the right thing with 24bit displays.


MSDOS:

This covers plain DOS; for Windows or OS/2 programs, see the next headings.

One good choice is Eric Praetzels free DVPEG, which views JPEG and GIF files.
The current version, 2.4a, is available by FTP from sunee.uwaterloo.ca
(129.97.50.50), file pub/jpeg/viewers/dvpeg24a.zip.  This is a good basic
viewer that works on either 286 or 386/486 machines.  The user interface is
not flashy, but its functional.

Another freeware JPEG/GIF/TGA viewer is Mohammad Rezaeis Hiview.  The
current version, 1.2, is available from Simtel20 and mirror sites (see NOTE
below), file msdos/graphics/hv12.zip.  Hiview requires a 386 or better CPU
and a VCPIcompatible memory manager (QEMM386 and 386MAX work; Windows and
OS/2 do not).  Hiview is currently the fastest viewer for images that are no
bigger than your screen.  For larger images, it scales the image down to fit
on the screen (rather than using panning/scrolling as most viewers do).
You may or may not prefer this approach, but theres no denying that it
slows down loading of large images considerably.  Note: installation is a
bit tricky; read the directions carefully!

A shareware alternative is ColorView for DOS ($30).  This is easier to
install than either of the two freeware alternatives.  Its user interface is
also much spiffierlooking, although personally I find it harder to use 
more keystrokes, inconsistent behavior.  It is faster than DVPEG but a
little slower than Hiview, at least on my hardware.  (For images larger than
screen size, DVPEG and ColorView seem to be about the same speed, and both
are faster than Hiview.)  The current version is 2.1, available from
Simtel20 and mirror sites (see NOTE below), file msdos/graphics/dcview21.zip.
Requires a VESA graphics driver; if you dont have one, look in vesadrv2.zip
or vesatsr.zip from the same directory.  (Many recent PCs have a builtin
VESA driver, so dont try to load a VESA driver unless ColorView complains
that the driver is missing.)

A second shareware alternative is Fullview, which has been kicking around
the net for a while, but I dont know any stable archive location for it.
The current (rather old) version is inferior to the above viewers anyway.
The author tells me that a new version of Fullview will be out shortly
and it will be submitted to the Simtel20 archives at that time.

The wellknown GIF viewer CompuShow (CSHOW) supports JPEG in its latest
revision, 8.60a.  However, CSHOWs JPEG implementation isnt very good:
its slow (about half the speed of the above viewers) and image quality is
poor except on hicolor displays.  Too bad ... itd have been nice to see a
good JPEG capability in CSHOW.  Shareware, $25.  Available from Simtel20 and
mirror sites (see NOTE below), file msdos/gif/cshw860a.zip.

Due to the remarkable variety of PC graphics hardware, any one of these
viewers might not work on your particular machine.  If you cant get any
of them to work, youll need to use one of the following conversion programs
to convert JPEG to GIF, then view with your favorite GIF viewer.  (If you
have hicolor hardware, dont use GIF as the intermediate format; try to
find a TARGAcapable viewer instead.  VPIC5.0 is reputed to do the right
thing with hicolor displays.)

The Independent JPEG Groups free JPEG converters are FTPable from Simtel20
and mirror sites (see NOTE below), file msdos/graphics/jpeg4.zip (or
jpeg4386.zip if you have a 386 and extended memory).  These files are DOS
compilations of the free source code described in section 6B; they will
convert JPEG to and from GIF, Targa, and PPM formats.

Handmade Software offers free JPEG<=>GIF conversion tools, GIF2JPG/JPG2GIF.
These are slow and are limited to conversion to and from GIF format; in
particular, you cant get 24bit color output from a JPEG.  The major
advantage of these tools is that they will read and write HSIs proprietary
JPEG format as well as the Usenetstandard JFIF format.  Since HSIformat
files are rather widespread on BBSes, this is a useful capability.  Version
2.0 of these tools is free (prior versions were shareware).  Get it from
Simtel20 and mirror sites (see NOTE below), file msdos/graphics/gif2jpg2.zip.
NOTE: do not use HSI format for files to be posted on Internet, since it is
not readable on nonPC platforms.

Handmade Software also has a shareware image conversion and manipulation
package, Image Alchemy.  This will translate JPEG files (both JFIF and HSI
formats) to and from many other image formats.  It can also display images.
A demo version of Image Alchemy version 1.6.1 is available from Simtel20 and
mirror sites (see NOTE below), file msdos/graphics/alch161.zip.

NOTE ABOUT SIMTEL20: The Internets key archive site for PCrelated programs
is Simtel20, full name wsmrsimtel20.army.mil (192.88.110.20).  Simtel20
runs a nonUnix system with weird directory names; where this document
refers to directory (eg) msdos/graphics at Simtel20, that really means
pd1:<msdos.graphics>.  If you are not physically on MILnet, you should
expect rather slow FTP transfer rates from Simtel20.  There are several
Internet sites that maintain copies (mirrors) of the Simtel20 archives;
most FTP users should go to one of the mirror sites instead.  A popular USA
mirror site is oak.oakland.edu (141.210.10.117), which keeps Simtel20 files
in (eg) /pub/msdos/graphics.  If you have no FTP capability, you can
retrieve files from Simtel20 by email; see informational postings in
comp.archives.msdos.announce to find out how.  If you are outside the USA,
consult the same newsgroup to learn where your nearest Simtel20 mirror is.

Microsoft Windows:

There are several Windows programs capable of displaying JPEG images.
(Windows viewers are generally slower than DOS viewers on the same hardware,
due to Windows system overhead.  Note that you can run the DOS conversion
programs described above inside a Windows DOS window.)

The newest entry is WinECJ, which is free and EXTREMELY fast.  Version 1.0
is available from ftp.rahul.net, file /pub/bryanw/pc/jpeg/wecj.zip.
Requires Windows 3.1 and 256ormorecolors mode.  This is a nofrills
viewer with the bad habit of hogging the machine completely while it
decodes; and the image quality is noticeably worse than other viewers.
But its so fast youll use it anyway, at least for previewing...

JView is freeware, fairly fast, has good online help, and can write out the
decompressed image in Windows BMP format; but it cant create new JPEG
files, and it doesnt view GIFs.  JView also lacks some other useful
features of the shareware viewers (such as brightness adjustment), but its
an excellent basic viewer.  The current version, 0.9, is available from
ftp.cica.indiana.edu (129.79.20.84), file pub/pc/win3/desktop/jview090.zip.
(Mirrors of this archive can be found at some other Internet sites,
including wuarchive.wustl.edu.)

WinJPEG (shareware, $20) displays JPEG,GIF,Targa,TIFF, and BMP image files;
it can write all of these formats too, so it can be used as a converter.
It has some other nifty features including colorbalance adjustment and
slideshow.  The current version is 2.1, available from Simtel20 and mirror
sites (see NOTE above), file msdos/windows3/winjp210.zip.  (This is a slow
286compatible version; if you register, youll get the 386only version,
which is roughly 25% faster.)

ColorView is another shareware entry ($30).  This was an early and promising
contender, but it has not been updated in some time, and at this point it
has no real advantages over WinJPEG.  If you want to try it anyway, the
current version is 0.97, available from ftp.cica.indiana.edu, file
pub/pc/win3/desktop/cview097.zip.  (I understand that a new version will
be appearing once the authors are finished with ColorView for DOS.)

DVPEG (see DOS heading) also works under Windows, but only in fullscreen
mode, not in a window.

OS/2:

The following files are available from hobbes.nmsu.edu (128.123.35.151).
Note: check /pub/uploads for more recent versions  the hobbes moderator
is not very fast about moving uploads into their permanent directories.
/pub/os2/2.x/graphics/jpegv4.zip
    32bit version of free IJG conversion programs, version 4.
/pub/os2/all/graphics/jpeg416.zip
    16bit version of same, for OS/2 1.x.
/pub/os2/2.x/graphics/imgarc11.zip
    Image Archiver 1.01: image conversion/viewing with PM graphical interface.
    Strong on conversion functions, viewing is a bit weaker.  Shareware, $15.
/pub/os2/2.x/graphics/pmjpeg11.zip
    PMJPEG 1.1: OS/2 2.x port of WinJPEG, a popular viewer for Windows
    (see description in Windows section).  Shareware, $20.
/pub/os2/2.x/graphics/pmview84.zip
    PMView 0.84: JPEG/GIF/BMP viewer.  GIF viewing very fast, JPEG viewing
    fast if you have huge amounts of RAM, otherwise about the same speed
    as the above programs.  Strong 24bit display support.  Shareware, $20.

Macintosh:

Most Mac JPEG programs rely on Apples JPEG implementation, which is part of
the QuickTime system extension; so you need to have QuickTime installed.
To use QuickTime, you need a 68020 or better CPU and you need to be running
System 6.0.7 or later.  (If youre running System 6, you must also install
the 32bit QuickDraw extension; this is builtin on System 7.)  You can get
QuickTime by FTP from ftp.apple.com, file dts/mac/quicktime/quicktime.hqx.
(As of 11/92, this file contains QuickTime 1.5, which is better than QT 1.0
in several ways.  With respect to JPEG, it is marginally faster and
considerably less prone to crash when fed a corrupt JPEG file.  However,
some applications seem to have compatibility problems with QT 1.5.)

Mac users should keep in mind that QuickTimes JPEG format, PICT/JPEG, is
not the same as the Usenetstandard JFIF JPEG format.  (See section 10 for
details.)  If you post images on Usenet, make sure they are in JFIF format.
Most of the programs mentioned below can generate either format.

The first choice is probably JPEGView, a free program for viewing images
that are in JFIF format, PICT/JPEG format, or GIF format.  It also can
convert between the two JPEG formats.  The current version, 2.0, is a big
improvement over prior versions.  Get it from sumexaim.stanford.edu
(36.44.0.6), file /infomac/app/jpegview20.hqx.  Requires System 7 and
QuickTime.  On 8bit displays, JPEGView usually produces the best color
image quality of all the currently available Mac JPEG viewers.  JPEGView can
view large images in much less memory than other Mac viewers; in fact, its
the only one that can deal with JPEG images much over 640x480 pixels on a
typical 4MB Mac.  Given a large image, JPEGView automatically scales it down
to fit on the screen, rather than presenting scroll bars like most other
viewers.  (You can zoom in on any desired portion, though.)  Some people
like this behavior, some dont.  Overall, JPEGViews user interface is very
well thought out.

GIFConverter, a shareware ($40) image viewer/converter, supports JFIF and
PICT/JPEG, as well as GIF and several other image formats.  The latest
version is 2.3.2.  Get it from sumexaim.stanford.edu, file
/infomac/art/gif/gifconverter232.hqx.  Requires System 6.0.5 or later.
GIFConverter is not better than JPEGView as a plain JPEG/GIF viewer, but
it has much more extensive image manipulation and format conversion
capabilities, so you may find it worth its shareware fee if you do a lot of
playing around with images.  Also, the newest version of GIFConverter can
load and save JFIF images without QuickTime, so it is your best bet if
your machine is too old to run QuickTime.  (But its faster with QuickTime.)
Note: If GIFConverter runs out of memory trying to load a large JPEG, try
converting the file to GIF with JPEG Convert, then viewing the GIF version.

JPEG Convert, a Mac version of the free IJG JPEG conversion utilities, is
available from sumexaim.stanford.edu, file /infomac/app/jpegconvert10.hqx.
This will run on any Mac, but it only does file conversion, not viewing.
You can use it in conjunction with any GIF viewer.

Previous versions of this FAQ recommended Imagery JPEG v0.6, a JPEG<=>GIF
converter based on an old version of the IJG code.  If you are using this
program, you definitely should replace it with JPEG Convert.

Apples free program PictPixie can view images in JFIF, QuickTime JPEG, and
GIF format, and can convert between these formats.  You can get PictPixie
from ftp.apple.com, file dts/mac/quicktime/qt.1.0.stuff/pictpixie.hqx.
Requires QuickTime.  PictPixie was intended as a developers tool, and its
really not the best choice unless you like to fool around with QuickTime.
Some of its drawbacks are that it requires lots of memory, it produces
relatively poor color image quality on anything less than a 24bit display,
and it has a relatively unfriendly user interface.  Worse, PictPixie is an
unsupported program, meaning it has some minor bugs that Apple does not
intend to fix.  (There is an old version of PictPixie, called
PICTCompressor, floating around the net.  If you have this you should trash
it, as its even buggier.  Also, the QuickTime Starter Kit includes a much
cleanedup descendant of PictPixie called Picture Compressor.  Note that
Picture Compressor is NOT free and may not be distributed on the net.)

Storm Technologys Picture Decompress is a free JPEG viewer/converter.
This rather old program is inferior to the above programs in many ways, but
it will run without System 7 or QuickTime, so you may be forced to use it on
older systems.  (It does need 32bit QuickDraw, so really old machines cant
use it.)  You can get it from sumexaim.stanford.edu, file
/infomac/app/picturedecompress201.hqx.  You must set the file type of a
downloaded image file to JPEG to allow Picture Decompress to open it.

If your machine is too old to run 32bit QuickDraw (a Mac Plus for instance),
GIFConverter is your only choice for singleprogram JPEG viewing.  If you
dont want to pay for GIFConverter, use JPEG Convert and a free GIF viewer.

More and more commercial Mac applications are supporting JPEG, although not
all can deal with the Usenetstandard JFIF format.  Adobe Photoshop, version
2.0.1 or later, can read and write JFIFformat JPEG files (use the JPEG
plugin from the Acquire menu).  You must set the file type of a downloaded
JPEG file to JPEG to allow Photoshop to recognize it.

Amiga:

(Most programs listed in this section are stored in the AmiNet archive at
amiga.physik.unizh.ch (130.60.80.80).  There are many mirror sites of this
archive and you should try to use the closest one.  In the USA, a good
choice is wuarchive.wustl.edu; look under /mirrors/amiga.physik.unizh.ch/...)

HamLab Plus is an excellent JPEG viewer/converter, as well as being a
general image manipulation tool.  Its cheap (shareware, $20) and can read
several formats besides JPEG.  The current version is 2.0.8.  A demo version
is available from amiga.physik.unizh.ch (and mirror sites), file
amiga/gfx/edit/hamlab208d.lha.  The demo version will crop images larger
than 512x512, but it is otherwise fully functional.

Rend24 (shareware, $30) is an image renderer that can display JPEG, ILBM,
and GIF images.  The program can be used to create animations, even
capturing frames onthefly from rendering packages like Lightwave.  The
current version is 1.05, available from amiga.physik.unizh.ch (and mirror
sites), file amiga/os30/gfx/rend105.lha.  (Note: although this directory is
supposedly for AmigaDOS 3.0 programs, the program will also run under
AmigaDOS 1.3, 2.04 or 2.1.)

Viewtek is a free JPEG/ILBM/GIF/ANIM viewer.  The current version is 1.04,
available from amiga.physik.unizh.ch (and mirror sites), file
amiga/gfx/show/ViewTek104.lha.

If youre willing to spend real money, there are several commercial packages
that support JPEG.  Two are written by Thomas Krehbiel, the author of Rend24
and Viewtek.  These are CineMorph, a standalone image morphing package, and
ImageFX, an impressive 24bit image capture, conversion, editing, painting,
effects and prepress package that also includes CineMorph.  Both are
distributed by Great Valley Products.  Art Department Professional (ADPro),
from ASDG Inc, is the most widely used commercial image manipulation
software for Amigas.  ImageMaster, from Black Belt Systems, is another
wellregarded commercial graphics package with JPEG support.

The free IJG JPEG software is available compiled for Amigas from
amiga.physik.unizh.ch (and mirror sites) in directory amiga/gfx/conv, file
AmigaJPEGV4.lha.  These programs convert JPEG to/from PPM,GIF,Targa formats.

The Amiga world is heavily infested with quickanddirty JPEG programs, many
based on an ancient betatest version of the free IJG JPEG software (thanks
to a certain magazine that published same on its diskofthemonth, without
so much as notifying the authors).  Among these are AugJPEG, NewAmyJPEG,
VJPEG, and probably others I have not even heard of.  In my opinion,
anything older than IJG version 3 (March 1992) is not worth the disk space
its stored on; if you have such a program, trash it and get something newer.

Atari ST: