From: chongo@toad.com Landon C. Noll
Subject: Reposting: 10th International Obfuscated C Code Contest rules 2 of 2
Epires: 8 May 93 00:00:00 GMT
ReplyTo: chongo@toad.com Landon C. Noll
Distribution: world
Organization: Nebula Consultants in San Francisco
Lines: 1409
Keywords: ioccc

We have received a number of requests for a reposting of the
International Obfuscated C Code Contest rules and guidelines.  Also
some people requested that these rules be posted to a wider set of
groups.  Sorry for the cross posting.

Some technical clarifications were made to the rules and guidelines.
See the diff marks at the right hand edge  The rules and guidelines
for this year remain the same, so people who have already or are
in the process of submitting entries for the 1993 IOCCC need not worry 
about these changes.

chongo Landon Curt Noll cc        chongo@toad.com
Larry Bassel                            lab@sun.com



!binsh
 This is part 02 of a multipart archive
  mkentry.c 
echo   etracting mkentry.c Tet
sed s  SHAR_EOF  mkentry.c 
 @mkentry.c	1.25 4593 15:58:08 

  Copyright c Landon Curt Noll  Larry Bassel, 1993.
  All Rights Reserved.  Permission for personal, education or nonprofit use
  is granted provided this this copyright and notice are included in its
  entirety and remains unaltered.  All other uses must receive prior
  permission in writing from both Landon Curt Noll and Larry Bassel.
 

  mkentry  make an International Obfuscated C Code Contest entry
 
  usage:
 	mkentry r remarks b build p prog.c o ioccc.entry
 
 	r remarks		file with remarks about the entry
 	b build		file containing how prog.c should be built
 	p prog.c		the obfuscated program source file
 	o ioccc.entry		ioccc entry output file
 
  compile by:
 	cc mkentry.c o mkentry
 

  Placed in the public domain by Landon Curt Noll, 1992.
 
  THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED ``AS IS AND WITHOUT ANY EPRESS OR IMPLIED
  WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
  MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
 

  WARNING:
 
  This program attempts to implement the IOCCC rules.  Every attempt
  has been made to make sure that this program produces an entry that
  conforms to the contest rules.  In all cases, where this program
  differs from the contest rules, the contest rules will be used.  Be
  sure to check with the contest rules before submitting an entry.
 
  FOR MORE INFORMATION:
 
    You may contact the judges by sending Email to the following address:
 
 	...!{apple,pyramid,sun,uunet}!hoptoad!judges	not the address for
 	judges@toad.com					 submitting entries
 
    Questions and comments about the contest are welcome.
 
   The rules and the guidelines may and often do change from year to
   year.  You should be sure you have the current rules and guidelines
   prior to submitting entries.  To obtain them, send Email to the address
   above and use the subject send rules.
 
   One may obtain winners of previous contests 1984 to date, via ftp from:
 
 	host: ftp.uu.net	192.48.96.9
 	user: anonymous
 	pass: yourname@yourhost
 	dir:  ~pubioccc
 
   As a last resort, previous winners may be obtained by sending Email
   to the above address.  Please use the subject send YEAR winners,
   where YEAR is a single 4 digit year, a year range, or all.
 
  Because contest rules change from year to year, one should only use this
  program for the year that it was intended.  Be sure that the RULE_YEAR
  define below matches this current year.
 

    GOALS OF THE CONTEST:

         To write the most ObscureObfuscated C program under the rules below.
         To show the importance of programming style, in an ironic way.
         To stress C compilers with unusual code.
         To illustrate some of the subtleties of the C language.
         To provide a safe forum for poor C code.  :

    The IOCCC is the grandfather of USENET programming contests.  Since
    1984, this contest demonstrated that a program that simply works
    correctly is not sufficient.  The IOCCC has also done much to add
    the arcane word obfuscated back into the English language.
    see The New Hackers Dictionary by Eric Raymond

    You are strongly encouraged to read the new contest rules before
    sending any entries.  The rules, and sometimes the contest Email
    address itself, change over time.  A valid entry one year may
    be rejected in a later year due to changes in the rules.  The typical
    start date for contests is in early March.  Contest rules are normally not
    finalized and posted until the beginning of the contest.  The typical
    closing date for contests are in early May.

    The rules and the guidelines may and often do change from year to
    year.  You should be sure you have the current rules and guidelines
    prior to submitting entries.  To obtain them, send Email to the address
    above and use the subject send rules.

    One may obtain winners of previous contests 1984 to date, via ftp from:

	host: ftp.uu.net	192.48.96.9
	user: anonymous
	pass: yourname@yourhost
	dir:  ~pubioccc

    As a last resort, previous winners may be obtained by sending Email
    to the above address.  Please use the subject send YEAR winners,
    where YEAR is a single 4 digit year, a year range, or all.



    0th International Obfuscated Perl Contest
	By: Landon Noll  Larry Wall

    This content is being planned.  Someday when Landon  Larry are not too
    busy, they will actually get around to posting the first set of rules!

    Landon says: Yes, I know that I said we would have a contest in 1993,
		  but other eisting projects got in the way.  Hopefully
		  something will be developed after Nov 1993.



                2nd International obFUsCaTeD POsTsCripT Contest
                     Jonathan Monsarrat jgm@cs.brown.edu
                         Alena Lacova alena@nikhef.nl

    A  contest of  programming skills  and  knowledge, eclusively  for the
    PostScript programming language. Its purpose:

     To spread knowledge of PostScript and its details.
     To applaud those with the best tricks.
     To prove  that humans can  beat those damnable  machine generators at
      their own game by writing  the most obscure and mysterious PostScript
      programs ever.

    Winners will receive the fame and attention that goes with having their
    program entry posted as a winner to programmers worldwide.

    The 1993 contest rules and results are available by ftp as
    ``wilma.cs.brown.edu:pubpostscriptobfuscated.shar, or individually
    in the obfuscated directory. The judges will post the 1994 rules
    in November to comp.lang.postscript on Usenet, and other places.
    Send questions to jgm@cs.brown.edu.

    Categories include: Best Obfuscated PostScript, Best Artwork,
    Most Compact, Best Interactive Program, Most Useful, and
    anything so unusual and creative that it deserves an award.

    The judges will choose the winners of each category.

    Alena Lacova  is a system  administrator at NIKHEF  Institute for High
    Energy and Nuclear  Physics in the  Netherlands. She is  the author of
    The PostScript Chaos  Programs, which draw  Julia sets, Mandelbrot sets
    and other kinds of fractal functions.

    Jonathan Monsarrat is a graduate  student from MIT and Brown University
    in  the  U.S.A. He  is  the  FAQ maintainer  for  the  Usenet newsgroup
    comp.lang.postscript and the author of The PostScript Zone and LameTe.
 .

SHAR_EOF
chmod 0444 obfuscate.info ||
echo restore of obfuscate.info failed
set `wc c obfuscate.info`;Wc_c$1
if test $Wc_c ! 6418; then
	echo original size 6418, current size $Wc_c
fi
eit 0
 
Sunnyvale residents: Vote Landon Noll for Sunnyvale City Council seat 1.
